
**Project Proposal**

*Project:* **Stress as a Social Cue on Social Media**

*Author ’s name:* **Oliver Alan Stafurik**

*Supervisor’s name:* **Xianghua Ding**

*Project proposal type:* **Bsc. Individual Project with Dissertation**

*Style of the project:* **Research-style project**

*Project start/end date:* **September 2022/May 2023**

**Problem & Solution:**

*Problem:* Most people are unaware or not good at expressing their feelings of increased stress levels among themselves and other people in their close proximity, which can lead to keeping them from getting social support in a timely fashion. This happens on an everyday basis and can escalate to a large-scale problem if untreated.

*Solution:* Now automatic stress sensing and tracking have become technically feasible in everyday lives. How can we leverage this kind of technologies to facilitate social interactions and support for stress management? One idea is to work with Google TicWatch, handle all the relevant data connected to stress, create a stress level proﬁle and represent it in some form on social media, both to the given person and his close contacts.

**Opportunity**

Since the stress as a social cue on social media hasn’t been researched thoroughly yet, therefore it creates a window of opportunity to explore stress as a variable, learn how to communicate it well and implement an applicable model for the customers. It is important to design prototypes and investigate how people perceive and use the stress data. We can develop a better idea of how to design such technologies for stress management. It gives a space to research and maybe creates build-up potential in the future either as a start-up, a master thesis in the level 5 or a paper publication if the research goes according to the plan.

**Intended Learning Outcomes (ILOs):**

ILO1: Get to know Google TicWatch, handle and ﬁlter relevant data.

ILO2: Work with Twitter API, get/post request on the service.

ILO3: Security protocols connected with secure storage of sensitive data in Database.

ILO4: Communication and System architecture between Watch, Mediator (mobile application, or similar) and Twitter API.

ILO5: Learn to represent stress level data in a meaningful way.

ILO6: Self-organisation, time management, work alone.

ILO7: Improving communication between supervisors and myself, explaining ideas in a meaningful and organised manner.

ILO8: Learn to make an HCI research in an appropriate way.

**Methodology & Project Scope:**

A step-by-step process to how I plan on reaching my project goal (Solution under section Problem & Solution). What needs to happen? Timeline of events included. Timeline is only for guidance, some tasks can take longer than proposed, some can be ﬁnalised in a shorter amount of time. This project is a research project, using research through design method.

*SEMESTER 1:*

\1. Research connection between Watch and computer (Week 4).

\2. Organise Project Repository (Week 5).

\3. Finish Project Proposal (Week 5).

\4. Connect TicWatch with computer (Week 6).

\5. Research into relevant stress data that can be read from Watch (Week 7).

\6. Create an architecture and a system design of the project (Week 7).

\7. Retrieve the relevant data from watch and display in a meaningful and organised way (Week 8).

\8. Mediate connection between Watch and Twitter (Week 9).

\9. Test GET/POST requests onto twitter with the Watch Data (Week 9).

\10. Create a Detection Algorithm for the data retrieval, when it flags, what does it do with

the data, etc. (Week 10 - Week 12).

\11. Create a simple app to give permissions to the algorithm (Winter break).

\12. More research into ways to display data in a meaningful way on Twitter (Winter break).



**Deliverables:**

\1. Software that retrieves relevant information from the Watch, processes data and finds abnormalities communicates the results to Twitter

\2. Dissertation containing every single piece of information about the project, including process, research, ideas that were and were not implemented, etc.

\3. Repository containing organisation stuff such as: plan.md (planning for the project), timelog.md (hours log explaining what on and when I did work), meetings.md notes from meetings held with supervisor.

\4. Status report - Report submitted after semester 1 (December) containing information about the progress made and the plan for the next semester.

\5. Presentation - explaining the entire project

