

Project Proposal

Project: Stress as a Social Cue on Social Media

Author’s name: Oliver Alan Stafurik

Supervisor’s name: Xianghua Ding

Project proposal type: Bsc. Individual Project with Dissertaꢀon

Style of the project: Research-style project Project

start/end date: September 2022/May 2023

Problem & Soluꢀon:

Problem: Most people are unaware or not good at expressing their feelings of increased

stress levels among themselves and other people in their close proximity, which can lead to

keeping them from geꢀng social support in a ꢁmely fashion. This happens on an everyday

basis and can escalate to a large-scale problem if untreated.

Soluꢀon: Now automaꢁc stress sensing and tracking have become technically feasible in

everyday lives. How can we leverage this kind of technologies to facilitate social interacꢁons

and support for stress management? One idea is to work with Google TicWatch, handle all

the relevant data connected to stress, create a stress level proﬁle and represent it in some

form on social media, both to the given person and his close contacts.

Opportunity

Since the stress as a social cue on social media hasn’t been researched thoroughly yet,

therefore it creates a window of opportunity to explore stress as a variable, learn how to

communicate it well and implement an applicable model for the customers. It is important

to design prototypes and invesꢁgate how people perceive and use the stress data. We can

develop a beꢂer idea of how to design such technologies for stress management. It gives a

space to research and maybe creates build-up potenꢁal in the future either as a start-up, a

master thesis in the level 5 or a paper publicaꢁon if the research goes according to the plan.

Intended Learning Outcomes (ILOs):

ILO1: Get to know Google TicWatch, handle and ﬁlter relevant data.

ILO2: Work with Twiꢂer API, get/post request on the service.

ILO3: Security protocols connected with secure storage of sensiꢁve data in Database.

ILO4: Communicaꢁon and System architecture between Watch, Mediator (mobile

applicaꢁon, or similar) and Twiꢂer API.

ILO5: Learn to represent stress level data in a meaningful way.

Project Proposal

1





ILO6: Self-organisaꢁon, ꢁme management, work alone.

ILO7: Improving communicaꢁon between supervisors and myself, explaining ideas in a

meaningful and organised manner.

ILO8: Learn to make an HCI research in an appropriate way.

Methodology & Project Scope:

A step-by-step process to how I plan on reaching my project goal (Soluꢁon under secꢁon

Problem & Soluꢁon). What needs to happen? Timeline of events included. Timeline is only

for guidance, some tasks can take longer than proposed, some can be ﬁnalised in a shorter

amount of ꢁme. This project is a research project, using research through design method.

SEMESTER 1:

\1. Research connecꢁon between Watch and computer (Week 4).

\2. Organise Project Repository (Week 5).

\3. Finish Project Proposal (Week 5).

\4. Connect TicWatch with computer (Week 6).

\5. Research into relevant stress data that can be read from Watch (Week 6).

\6. Create an architecture and a system design of the project (Week 7).

\7. Retrieve the relevant data from watch and display in a meaningful and organised way

(Week 8).

\8. Mediate connecꢁon between Watch and Twiꢂer (Week 9).

\9. Test GET/POST requests onto twiꢂer with the Watch Data (Week 9).

\10. Create a Detecꢁon Algorithm for the data retrieval, when it ﬂags, what does it do with

the data, etc. (Week 10 - Week 12).

\11. Create design sketches and a prototype for the whole system (Week 10-Week 12).

\12. Create a simple app to give permissions to the algorithm (Winter break).

\13. More research into ways to display data in a meaningful way on Twiꢂer - most likely

draꢃ some User Studies and User Stories.(Winter break).

Deliverables:

\1. Soꢃware that retrieves relevant informaꢁon from the Watch, processes data and ﬁnds

communicates the stress data to Twiꢂer

Project Proposal

2





\2. Dissertaꢁon containing every single piece of informaꢁon about the project, including

process, research, ideas that were and were not implemented, etc.

\3. Repository containing organisaꢁon stuﬀ such as: [p](http://plan.md/)[lan.md](http://plan.md/)[ ](http://plan.md/)(planning for the project),

[ꢁmelo](http://timelog.md/)[g](http://timelog.md/)[.md](http://timelog.md/)[ ](http://timelog.md/)(hours log explaining what on and when I did work), [meeꢁn](http://meetings.md/)[g](http://meetings.md/)[s.md](http://meetings.md/)[ ](http://meetings.md/)(notes

from meeꢁngs held with supervisor)

\4. Status report - Report submiꢂed aꢃer semester 1 (December) containing informaꢁon

about the progress made and the plan for the next semester.

\5. Presentaꢁon - explaining the enꢁre project

Project Proposal

3

